RNCP 7 certificate
Each campus of the 42 network can choose to offer the RNCP 7 homologated certificate from 42 Paris to its students.
You do not have access to it until specific notice from your local staff.

The RNCP 7 certificate is delivered by 42 Paris and approved by the French ministry of labour. It is considered as a 5 years long training in higher education, and often compared to a Master degree. More details on the dedicated page on the 42 website. This page describes how to obtain the certificate within your curriculum. It is also possible to obtain it through the APEL (Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning) process, if your are fluent in French.

The French public accreditor, France Compétences, delivers accreditations for 1, 3 or 5 years. 42Paris can award the certificate up to 3 years after the accreditation period. The certificate proves the attached skills for a lifetime. We are currently awarding certificates for:

RNCP 36137
RNCP 39774 which is the renewal of RNCP 36137.
Obtaining this certificate is on a volunteer basis, and is disconnected from the final 42 certificate you will obtain when you want to become an alumni (after your common core is validated).

To obtain this certificate you will need to choose between 2 options:

Network Information Systems Architecture
Database architecture and data
This certificate aims a specific job in the labour market and therefore comes with special constraints on your curriculum. When you fulfil all these constraints, you can request the certificate through the local process advertised by your campus.

Pedagogical requirements
The following describes the requirements for a regular student applying to the certification jury. Conditions may differ in case of apprenticeship or APL (VAE).
It is possible for an alumni to complete new projects and fulfil RNCP requirements. The theoretical number of XP and level including the new projects will be used.

A specific tool exists in order for you to check automatically the conditions below: https://gcc.42.fr .

For both options, you need to:

Complete the common core.
Have validated two post-common core group projects.
Reach the level 21.
Have attended 15 pedagogical events since you started your cursus (except extern and association events).
Have at least 2 full-time professional experiences as part of your curriculum (mostly the projects Work Experience I & II, Startup Experience, eventually some apprenticeship project temporally equivalent - ask your local staff, but no part-time project).

Validate one project in the ""Suite"" (or "series") category:
(each project's predecessor is indicated into parenthesis, for your information only)

42sh (minishell)
BADASS (NetPractice)
DoomNukem (cub3d)
Inception Of Things (inception)
HumanGL (scop)
kfs-2 (kfs-1)
Override (rainfall)
Pestilence (famine)
RT (miniRT)
Total perspective vortex (dslr)
Then, depending on the chosen option:

Option 1: Network Information Systems Architecture

Unix/Kernel - minimum 30000XP and minimum 2 projects.

libasm
zappy
ft_linux
little penguin
taskmaster
strace
malloc
Matt Daemon
nm
lem_ipc
KFS 1-10 (doing all of them is not mandatory)
ft_script
ft_select
System administration - minimum 50000XP and 3 projects.

cloud-1
BADASS
Inception Of Things
taskmaster
ft_ping
ft_traceroute
ft_nmap
Active Discovery
Automatic Directory
Administrative Directory
Accessible Directory
Security - minimum 50000XP and 3 projects.

ft_malcolm
ft_ssl_md5
Darkly
Snowcrash
Rainfall
Override
boot2root
ft_shield
Woody Woodpacker
Famine
Pestilence
Piscine Cybersecurity ​​ (validate last child proj to be count as 1 project, validate all projects to get all XP)
UnleashTheBox
Active Connect
MicroForensX
ActiveTechTales
Option 2: Database architecture and data

Web - Database - minimum 50000XP and minimum 2 projects.

Piscine PHP Symfony​​ (validate last child proj to be count as 1 project, validate all projects to get all XP)
Piscine python Django (same as above)
Piscine Ruby on Rails (same as above)
Camagru
Matcha
Hypertube
Red Tetris
Darkly
h42n42
Tokenizer
TokenizeArt
Music-room
Artificial Intelligence - minimum 70000XP and minimum 3 projects.

[DEPRECATED]Piscine Machine Learning​​ (validate last child proj to be count as 1 project, validate all projects to get all XP)
Piscine Python for Data Science (same as above)
Piscine Data Science (same as above)
Linear regression
DSLR
Multi layer perceptron
Gomoku
Total perspective vortex
Expert system
Krpsim
Matrix
Ready set boole
Leaffliction
Learn2Slither